[Music]
ten mysteries hidden in famous paintings
do you love art just as much as we do if
yes then this video will open up many
exciting things for you as you know art
is not just a source of inspiration but
a great mystery to artists often add
unique little details to their paintings
or leave messages that are impossible to
notice at first glance we've collected
painting masterpieces with surprising
secrets at the end of the video there's
a bonus waiting for you one of the
strangest hypotheses about the Mona Lisa
stay with us and learn the things that
you never knew before
[Music]
number 10 the wrong ear
Vincent van Gogh the greatest Dutch
painter known for such masterpieces as
the starry night and irises highly
influenced 20th century art his
self-portrait with bandaged ear depicts
the artist in a 3/4 profile standing in
a room in the yellow house with an
injured right ear in reality he cut off
his left ear the discrepancy is
explained by the fact that van Gogh used
a mirror to create the picture of
himself it seems to be a strange and
sharp reaction for Van Gogh to cut off
his ear however history explains it with
the fact that he was deeply troubled and
apparently losing his mind at the time
he crafted the painting
[Music]
number nine the painting under the
painting if you look closely at the old
guitarist by Pablo Picasso you can see a
ghostly female silhouette behind the
man's head in the top center of the
painting after taking infrared and x-ray
images of the canvas researchers from
the Art Institute of Chicago discovered
a few other shapes hidden underneath
most likely the artists didn't have
enough money to buy new canvases and had
to paint over old ones however it was
common for painters to reuse or rework
old canvasses some of them were living
below the poverty line number 8 the
Night Watch is set at daytime Rembrandt
another Dutch painter was an innovative
master of three media paintings the
shooting company of Franz banning
and villain van Royden birth better
known as the Night Watch is considered
to be one of Rembrandt's greatest
portrait paintings which were executed
at the top of his career the painting
depicts the militia fully equipped and
ready to embark on a mission during the
restoration of it in 1947 the painting
was cleaned of a thick layer of soot
after that it became evident that the
scene portrayed in the painting takes
place not at night but in daylight
number seven the Sistine Chapel's
anatomical code some American experts in
the field of neuro Anatomy believed that
the Creation of Adam by Michelangelo
contains allusions to anatomy they argue
that the right part of the painting is
an anatomically correct image of a huge
brain you can find even the most
sophisticated components of the brain
such as the cerebellum the optic nerve
and the pituitary gland at the same time
the conspicuous green band perfectly
coincides with the vertebral artery
moreover another fresco of the Sistine
Chapel the separation of light and
darkness also has a hidden image of a
brain look at God's neck if you
superimpose it onto a photo of the human
will get a perfect overlap of the same
lines have people started to solve a 500
year-old puzzle of the ceiling of the
Sistine Chapel only now we wonder how
many more puzzles it is hiding
you
number six the symbol of strength the
figures of David and Goliath in another
fresco of the Sistine Chapel created by
Michelangelo form the Hebrew letter
gimel which symbolizes strength in the
mystical Qabalah tradition it is not a
surprise that the shapes on the painting
look so powerful is it number 5
Rembrandt's squint Margaret Livingstone
and bevel Conway studied Rembrandt's
self-portraits and proved that the
painter suffered from stereo blindness
this peculiarity made the artist
perceive the world a little differently
he saw reality in 2d instead of 3d
however it is possible that stereo
blindness helps Graham Brandt create his
immortal masterpieces
further proof that a person can do and
achieve anything despite all the
obstacles if they wanted
[Music]
number four vengeance two lovers
one of the most famous paintings by
Gustav Klimt portrays Adele bloch-bauer
it was commissioned by her husband the
sugar baron Ferdinand bloch-bauer he
found out that Adele and Klimt had an
affair and believed that after hundreds
of sketches the painter would come to
hate his mistress routine work made the
feelings between the model and the
artist cool down hmm that Ferdinand was
a smart guy number three prediction of
the end of the world
the Italian researcher sabrina's forza
galicia proposed an unusual
interpretation of Leonardo da Vinci's
Last Supper she says that the artist
left a prediction of the end of the
world in his painting which will happen
on March 21st 4006
to come to this conclusion the
researcher deciphered the mathematical
and astrological code of the painting
that's not the only mystery of Last
Supper the hands of Christ and the
Apostles along with the loaves of bread
on the table forms something that could
be read as a musical notation upon
testing it does sound like a short tune
[Music]
number two the world in yellow almost
all of the paintings of Vincent van Gogh
featured a dominant yellow professor
Paul Wolfe explains that as a side
effect of an epilepsy remedy that
changes color perception the artists
world could look the way we see it in
his canvases however there is another
version it's known that van Gogh like to
drink absinthe this drink contains
thujone a moderate consumption of which
may cause the drinker to see all objects
with a yellow color
[Music]
number one Mozart and the Masons
there is solid evidence that Wolfgang
Amadeus Mozart was a Mason
even in his child portrait by pietro
antonio lorentz oniy we can see a
Masonic symbol a hidden hand that
indicates a hierarchical rank in the
secret society and now it's time for the
bonus which we promised at the beginning
of the video
toothless Mona Lisa what is it that made
Mona Lisa smile so enchanting and
captivating dentist and art expert
Joseph Bartowski carefully studied
Leonardo da Vinci's painting and claims
to have unveiled the secret behind logic
Wanda's smile he believes that she had
lost her front teeth and that influenced
her facial expression what a surprise
are you aware of any other incredible
secrets of famous masterpieces share
them in the comment section below don't
forget to hit the like button below the
video and click subscribe to join us on
the bright side of life
[Music]
you